# BATMANSim
CPE400 Computer Networking BATMAN Simulation Project

To Build and Run:
1.) Ensure the following libraries are installed:
    -Python Tkinter (for GUI):
        sudo apt-get install python-tk
    -Python Networkx (for graphing):
        sudo apt-get install python-networkx
    -Matplotlib Pyplot (for printing graphs):
        sudo apt-get install python-matplotlib
2.) Build the project by running the following command in the directory where the program source is stored:
        python applicationUI.py
3.) Create your nodes using the drop down entries per node and click "Show Network" to show the current state.
4.) When the network is initialized, go ahead and enter a value for how many time cycles to run the network.
        -Note: As several actions must be completed per time slice, it is recommended that a value greater
               than 5 (representing 500 msec) is set for the initial run. Avoid large inputs as each node
               maintains several OGM packets, messages, and state traces. Instead, time step by increments
               to ensure no corruption of data. Around 20-50 time intervals are tested and safe for rapid
               OGM generating nodes. Nodes that take large intervals to generate OGMs (about 30 time frames)
               may run for longer.
5.) Click "Start Simulation" to run
6.) An automatic state report of the network will be displayed in the console window after the time values have
    been simulated in the network. This may be printed to a file by pressing "Report Console."
7.) At any time, a graph of the current network state may be generated by clicking "Print Graph."
8.) Additionally, messages may be created and sent between nodes as long as the network has been recognized by
    the sending node. Network topology describes the nodes that have been recognized through OGMs to the reporting
    node. Enter the sender's IP, the destination IP, and the message. When the message has reached the recipient,
    the sender IP and the payload will be displayed for the user in the console.
9.) Selecting "Save" from the menu->file options will give a more detailed report of the user nodes in a printed
    file for viewing all data associated with the nodes.